README.adoc, before:

= i3blocks-status
:toc:

This project provides scripts for i3blocks to copycat the status line generated by i3status.

CAUTION: Any block or option not available in i3status is out of scope.

The default configuration file is a direct translation of the default i3status configuration file.
With i3blocks link:https://vivien.github.io/i3blocks/#_installation[set up], you can fetch these scripts and run them with:

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-status.git ~/.config/i3blocks
i3blocks # or from another location with -c i3block-status/config
----

General options are described below.

== +general+

TODO

Blocks (i3status "modules") are described below.

== +battery+

Gets the +status+ (charging, discharging, unknown, full), +percentage+ and +remaining+ time of the given battery and when it’s estimated to be empty.

If you want to use the last full capacity instead of the design capacity (when using the design capacity, it may happen that your battery is at 23% when fully charged because it’s old.
In general, I want to see it this way, because it tells me how worn off my battery is.), just specify +last_full_capacity=true+.

You can hide seconds in the remaining time and empty time estimations by setting +hide_seconds=true+.

If you want the battery percentage to be shown without decimals, add +integer_battery_capacity=true+.

If your battery is represented in a non-standard path in /sys, be sure to modify the "path" property accordingly, i.e. pointing to the uevent file on your system.
The first occurrence of %d gets replaced with the battery number, but you can just hard-code a path as well.

It is possible to define a +low_threshold+ that causes the battery text to be colored red.
The +low_threshold+ type can be of +threshold_type+ "time" or "percentage".
So, if you configure +low_threshold+ to 10 and +threshold_type+ to "time", and your battery lasts another 9 minutes, it will be colored red.

To show an aggregate of all batteries in the system, use "all" as the number.
In this case, the /sys path must contain the "%d" sequence.
Otherwise, the number indicates the battery index as reported in /sys.

Optionally custom strings including any UTF-8 symbols can be used for different battery states. 
This makes it possible to display individual symbols for each state (+charging+, +discharging+, +unknown+, +full+).
Of course it will also work with special iconic fonts, such as FontAwesome.
If any of these special status strings are omitted, the default (+CHR+, +BAT+, +UNK+, +FULL+) is used.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The battery number
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%status %percentage %remaining+) +
Placeholders can be: +%status+, +%percentage+, +%remaining+, +%emptytime+.
+format_down+:: The format string when battery is not present (defaults to +No battery+)
+status_chr+:: The string for the charging state (defaults to +CHR+)
+status_bat+:: The string for the battery state (defaults to +BAT+)
+status_unk+:: The string for the unknown state (defaults to +UNK+)
+status_full+:: The string for the full state (defaults to +FULL+)
+path+:: The path to the uevent file (defaults to +/sys/class/power_supply/BAT%d/uevent+) +
The integer placeholder is replaced by the battery number (i.e. +instance+).
+threshold_type+:: The threshold type (defaults to +time+) +
Values can be: +time+ (in minutes), +percentage+.
+low_threshold+:: The low threshold level (defaults to +30+)
+hide_seconds+:: To hide remaining seconds (defaults to +true+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[battery]
instance=0

# Default values
#format=%status %percentage %remaining
#format_down=No battery
#status_chr=CHR
#status_bat=BAT
#status_unk=UNK
#status_full=FULL
#path=/sys/class/power_supply/BAT%d/uevent
#low_threshold=30
#threshold_type=time
#last_full_capacity=false
#integer_battery_capacity=false
#hide_seconds=true
----

== +cpu_temperature+

Gets the temperature of the given thermal zone.
It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the temperature red in case the specified thermal zone is getting too hot.
Defaults to 75 degrees C.
The output format when above max_threshold can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The thermal zone number
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%degrees C+) +
Placeholder is +degrees+.
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+path+:: The path to the thermal zone file (defaults to +/sys/class/thermal/thermal_zone%d/temp+) +
The integer placeholder is replaced by the thermal zone number (i.e. +instance+).
+max_threshold+:: The high threshold level (defaults to +75+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[cpu_temperature]
instance=0

# Default values
#format=%degrees C
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to format
# path is not set and fallback to /sys/class/thermal/thermal_zone%d/temp
#max_threshold=75
----

== +cpu_usage+

Gets the percentual CPU usage from /proc/stat.

It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the load value red in case the CPU average over the last interval is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 95.
The output format when above +max_threshold+ can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

It is possible to define a +degraded_threshold+ that will color the load value yellow in case the CPU average over the last interval is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 90.
The output format when above degraded threshold can be customized with +format_above_degraded_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+full_format+:: The format string (defaults to +%usage+) +
Placeholders can be: +usage+, +cpu0+, +cpu1+, +cpu2+...
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when max threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+format_above_degraded_threshold+:: The format string when degraded threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+path+:: The path to the stat file (defaults to +/proc/stat+)
+max_threshold+:: The max threshold level (defaults to +95+)
+degraded_threshold+:: The degraded threshold level (defaults to +90+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[cpu_usage]
format=json

# Default values
#full_format=%usage
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to full_format
# format_above_degraded_threshold is not set and fallback to full_format
#path=/proc/stat
#max_threshold=95
#degraded_threshold=90
----

== +ddate+

Outputs the current discordian date in user-specified format.
See +ddate(1)+ for details on the format string.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +ddate+ format string (defaults to +%{%a, %b %d%}, %Y%N - %H+) +
See +ddate(1)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[ddate]

# Default values
#format=%{%a, %b %d%}, %Y%N - %H
----

== +disk+

Gets +used+, +free+, +available+ and +total+ amount of bytes on the given mounted filesystem.

These values can also be expressed in percentages with the +percentage_used+, +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+ and +percentage_used_of_avail+ formats.

It is possible to define a +low_threshold+ that causes the disk text to be displayed using color_bad.
The +low_threshold+ type can be of +threshold_type+ "bytes_free", "bytes_avail", "percentage_free", or "percentage_avail", where the former two can be prepended by a generic prefix (k, m, g, t) having +prefix_type+.
So, if you configure +low_threshold+ to 2, +threshold_type+ to "gbytes_avail", and +prefix_type+ to "binary", and the remaining available disk space is below 2 GiB, it will be colored bad.
If not specified, +threshold_type+ is assumed to be "percentage_avail" and +low_threshold+ to be set to 0, which implies no coloring at all.
You can customize the output format when below +low_threshold+ with +format_below_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: Moint point
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%free+) +
Placeholders can be: +used+, +free+, +available+, +total+, +percentage_used+, +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+, +percentage_used_of_avail+.
+format_below_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+format_not_mounted+:: Format string when the path does not exist or when it is not a mount point (defaults to +""+)
+prefix_type+:: Byte sizes are presented in a human readable format using a set of prefixes (defaults to +binary+) +
Values can be: +binary+ (Ki, Mi, Gi, Ti), +decimal+ (k, M, G, T), +custom+ (K, M, G, T).
+threshold_type+:: The threshold type (defaults to +percentage_avail+) +
Values can be: +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+, +bytes_free+, +bytes_avail+.
+low_threshold+:: The low threshold level (defaults to +0+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[disk]
instance=/

# Default values
#format=%free
# format_below_threshold is not set and fallback to format
# format_not_mounted is not set and fallback to ""
#prefix_type=binary
#threshold_type=percentage_avail
#low_threshold=0
----

== +ethernet+

TODO

== +ipv6+

TODO

== +load+

Gets the system load (number of processes waiting for CPU time in the last +1+, +5+ and +15+ minutes).

It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the load value red in case the load average of the last minute is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 5.
The output format when above +max_threshold+ can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%1min %5min %15min+) +
Placeholders can be: +%1min+, +%5min+, +%15min+.
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+max_threshold+:: The high threshold level (defaults to +5+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[load]

# Default values
#format=%1min %5min %15min
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to format
#max_threshold=5
----

== +path_exists+

Checks if the given path exists in the filesystem.
You can use this to check if something is active, like for example a VPN tunnel managed by NetworkManager.
There also is an option "format_down".
You can hide the output with format_down="".

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The title.
+path+:: The path to the file (must be set).
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%title: %status+) +
Placeholders can be: +%title+ (i.e. +instance+), +%status+ (i.e. +yes+ or +no+).
+format_down+:: The format string when the file does not exist at +path+ (defaults to format).

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[path_exists]
instance=VPN
# path exists when a VPN tunnel launched by nmcli/nm-applet is active
path=/proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/tun0

# Default values
# path is not set and must be set
#format=%title: %status
# format_down is not set and fallback to format if path does not exist
----

== +run_watch+

Expands the given path to a +pidfile+ and checks if the process ID found inside is valid (that is, if the process is running).
You can use this to check if a specific application, such as a VPN client or your DHCP client is running.
There also is an option "format_down".
You can hide the output with format_down="".

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The title.
+pidfile+:: The path to the pid file (must be set).
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%title: %status+) +
Placeholders can be: +%title+ (i.e. +instance+), +%status+ (i.e. +yes+ or +no+).
+format_down+:: The format string when the pid does not exist in +pidfile+ (defaults to format).

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[run_watch]
instance=DHCP
pidfile=/var/run/dhclient*.pid

# Default values
# pidfile is not set and must be set
#format=%title: %status
# format_down is not set and fallback to format if pid does not exist
----

== +time+

Outputs the current time.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +strftime+ format string (defaults to +%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S+) +
See +strftime(3)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[time]

# Default values
#format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S
----

== +tztime+

Outputs the current time in the given +timezone+.
If no +timezone+ is given, local time will be used.
The system’s timezone database is usually installed in /usr/share/zoneinfo.
Files below that path make for valid timezone strings, e.g. for /usr/share/zoneinfo/Europe/Berlin you can set timezone to Europe/Berlin in the +tztime+ module.
To override the locale settings of your environment, set the +locale+ option.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +strftime+ format string if format_time is unset or format string (defaults to +%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z+) +
If +format_time+ is unset, placeholders are the one from +strftime(3)+.
Otherwise, placeholder is +%time+ (i.e. the +strftime(3)+ format string).
+timezone+:: The timezone (defaults to "")
+locale+:: The locale (defaults to "")
+format_time+:: The +strftime+ format string (defaults to unset). +
See +strftime(3)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[tztime]
instance=local
format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S

# Default values
#format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z
# timezone is not set
# locale is not set
# format_time is not set
----

== +volume+

Outputs the volume of the specified mixer on the specified device.
Only ALSA is supported.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: Format string (defaults to +♪: %volume+).
Placeholder is +%volume+.
+format_muted+:: Format string when the mixer is muted (defaults to +♪: 0%%+).
+device+:: The device (defaults to +default+)
+mixer+:: The mixer (defaults to +Master+)
+mixer_idx+:: The mixer id (defaults to +0+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[volume]

# Default values
#format=♪: %volume
#format_muted=♪: 0%%
#device=default
#mixer=Master
#mixer_idx=0
----

== +wireless+

Get the link quality, frequency, and ESSID of the given wireless network interface.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: Network interface (defaults to +_first_+)
+format_up+:: Format string when the interface is up. +
Placeholders can be: +%bitrate+, +%essid+, +%frequency+, +%ip+, +%quality+.
+format_down+:: Format string when the interface is down.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[wireless]
instance=wlan0
format_up=W: (%quality at %essid, %bitrate / %frequency) %ip
format_down=W: down
----

Commit message:

ipv6: initial implementation
Implement the ipv6 script copying the "ipv6" module of i3status.

README.adoc, after:

= i3blocks-status
:toc:

This project provides scripts for i3blocks to copycat the status line generated by i3status.

CAUTION: Any block or option not available in i3status is out of scope.

The default configuration file is a direct translation of the default i3status configuration file.
With i3blocks link:https://vivien.github.io/i3blocks/#_installation[set up], you can fetch these scripts and run them with:

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-status.git ~/.config/i3blocks
make -C !$ ipv6
i3blocks # or from another location with -c i3block-status/config
----

General options are described below.

== +general+

TODO

Blocks (i3status "modules") are described below.

== +battery+

Gets the +status+ (charging, discharging, unknown, full), +percentage+ and +remaining+ time of the given battery and when it’s estimated to be empty.

If you want to use the last full capacity instead of the design capacity (when using the design capacity, it may happen that your battery is at 23% when fully charged because it’s old.
In general, I want to see it this way, because it tells me how worn off my battery is.), just specify +last_full_capacity=true+.

You can hide seconds in the remaining time and empty time estimations by setting +hide_seconds=true+.

If you want the battery percentage to be shown without decimals, add +integer_battery_capacity=true+.

If your battery is represented in a non-standard path in /sys, be sure to modify the "path" property accordingly, i.e. pointing to the uevent file on your system.
The first occurrence of %d gets replaced with the battery number, but you can just hard-code a path as well.

It is possible to define a +low_threshold+ that causes the battery text to be colored red.
The +low_threshold+ type can be of +threshold_type+ "time" or "percentage".
So, if you configure +low_threshold+ to 10 and +threshold_type+ to "time", and your battery lasts another 9 minutes, it will be colored red.

To show an aggregate of all batteries in the system, use "all" as the number.
In this case, the /sys path must contain the "%d" sequence.
Otherwise, the number indicates the battery index as reported in /sys.

Optionally custom strings including any UTF-8 symbols can be used for different battery states. 
This makes it possible to display individual symbols for each state (+charging+, +discharging+, +unknown+, +full+).
Of course it will also work with special iconic fonts, such as FontAwesome.
If any of these special status strings are omitted, the default (+CHR+, +BAT+, +UNK+, +FULL+) is used.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The battery number
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%status %percentage %remaining+) +
Placeholders can be: +%status+, +%percentage+, +%remaining+, +%emptytime+.
+format_down+:: The format string when battery is not present (defaults to +No battery+)
+status_chr+:: The string for the charging state (defaults to +CHR+)
+status_bat+:: The string for the battery state (defaults to +BAT+)
+status_unk+:: The string for the unknown state (defaults to +UNK+)
+status_full+:: The string for the full state (defaults to +FULL+)
+path+:: The path to the uevent file (defaults to +/sys/class/power_supply/BAT%d/uevent+) +
The integer placeholder is replaced by the battery number (i.e. +instance+).
+threshold_type+:: The threshold type (defaults to +time+) +
Values can be: +time+ (in minutes), +percentage+.
+low_threshold+:: The low threshold level (defaults to +30+)
+hide_seconds+:: To hide remaining seconds (defaults to +true+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[battery]
instance=0

# Default values
#format=%status %percentage %remaining
#format_down=No battery
#status_chr=CHR
#status_bat=BAT
#status_unk=UNK
#status_full=FULL
#path=/sys/class/power_supply/BAT%d/uevent
#low_threshold=30
#threshold_type=time
#last_full_capacity=false
#integer_battery_capacity=false
#hide_seconds=true
----

== +cpu_temperature+

Gets the temperature of the given thermal zone.
It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the temperature red in case the specified thermal zone is getting too hot.
Defaults to 75 degrees C.
The output format when above max_threshold can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The thermal zone number
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%degrees C+) +
Placeholder is +degrees+.
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+path+:: The path to the thermal zone file (defaults to +/sys/class/thermal/thermal_zone%d/temp+) +
The integer placeholder is replaced by the thermal zone number (i.e. +instance+).
+max_threshold+:: The high threshold level (defaults to +75+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[cpu_temperature]
instance=0

# Default values
#format=%degrees C
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to format
# path is not set and fallback to /sys/class/thermal/thermal_zone%d/temp
#max_threshold=75
----

== +cpu_usage+

Gets the percentual CPU usage from /proc/stat.

It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the load value red in case the CPU average over the last interval is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 95.
The output format when above +max_threshold+ can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

It is possible to define a +degraded_threshold+ that will color the load value yellow in case the CPU average over the last interval is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 90.
The output format when above degraded threshold can be customized with +format_above_degraded_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+full_format+:: The format string (defaults to +%usage+) +
Placeholders can be: +usage+, +cpu0+, +cpu1+, +cpu2+...
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when max threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+format_above_degraded_threshold+:: The format string when degraded threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+path+:: The path to the stat file (defaults to +/proc/stat+)
+max_threshold+:: The max threshold level (defaults to +95+)
+degraded_threshold+:: The degraded threshold level (defaults to +90+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[cpu_usage]
format=json

# Default values
#full_format=%usage
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to full_format
# format_above_degraded_threshold is not set and fallback to full_format
#path=/proc/stat
#max_threshold=95
#degraded_threshold=90
----

== +ddate+

Outputs the current discordian date in user-specified format.
See +ddate(1)+ for details on the format string.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +ddate+ format string (defaults to +%{%a, %b %d%}, %Y%N - %H+) +
See +ddate(1)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[ddate]

# Default values
#format=%{%a, %b %d%}, %Y%N - %H
----

== +disk+

Gets +used+, +free+, +available+ and +total+ amount of bytes on the given mounted filesystem.

These values can also be expressed in percentages with the +percentage_used+, +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+ and +percentage_used_of_avail+ formats.

It is possible to define a +low_threshold+ that causes the disk text to be displayed using color_bad.
The +low_threshold+ type can be of +threshold_type+ "bytes_free", "bytes_avail", "percentage_free", or "percentage_avail", where the former two can be prepended by a generic prefix (k, m, g, t) having +prefix_type+.
So, if you configure +low_threshold+ to 2, +threshold_type+ to "gbytes_avail", and +prefix_type+ to "binary", and the remaining available disk space is below 2 GiB, it will be colored bad.
If not specified, +threshold_type+ is assumed to be "percentage_avail" and +low_threshold+ to be set to 0, which implies no coloring at all.
You can customize the output format when below +low_threshold+ with +format_below_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: Moint point
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%free+) +
Placeholders can be: +used+, +free+, +available+, +total+, +percentage_used+, +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+, +percentage_used_of_avail+.
+format_below_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+format_not_mounted+:: Format string when the path does not exist or when it is not a mount point (defaults to +""+)
+prefix_type+:: Byte sizes are presented in a human readable format using a set of prefixes (defaults to +binary+) +
Values can be: +binary+ (Ki, Mi, Gi, Ti), +decimal+ (k, M, G, T), +custom+ (K, M, G, T).
+threshold_type+:: The threshold type (defaults to +percentage_avail+) +
Values can be: +percentage_free+, +percentage_avail+, +bytes_free+, +bytes_avail+.
+low_threshold+:: The low threshold level (defaults to +0+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[disk]
instance=/

# Default values
#format=%free
# format_below_threshold is not set and fallback to format
# format_not_mounted is not set and fallback to ""
#prefix_type=binary
#threshold_type=percentage_avail
#low_threshold=0
----

== +ethernet+

TODO

== +ipv6+

This module gets the +IPv6+ address used for outgoing connections (that is, the best available public +IPv6+ address on your computer).

.Options
[horizontal]
+format_up+:: Format string when an IPv6 is set (defaults to +%ip+) +
Placeholder is +%ip+.
+format_down+:: Format string when no IPv6 is set (defaults to +No IPv6+.)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[ipv6]
format_up=%ip
format_down=No IPv6
----

== +load+

Gets the system load (number of processes waiting for CPU time in the last +1+, +5+ and +15+ minutes).

It is possible to define a +max_threshold+ that will color the load value red in case the load average of the last minute is getting higher than the configured threshold.
Defaults to 5.
The output format when above +max_threshold+ can be customized with +format_above_threshold+.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%1min %5min %15min+) +
Placeholders can be: +%1min+, +%5min+, +%15min+.
+format_above_threshold+:: The format string when threshold is reached (defaults to +format+)
+max_threshold+:: The high threshold level (defaults to +5+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[load]

# Default values
#format=%1min %5min %15min
# format_above_threshold is not set and fallback to format
#max_threshold=5
----

== +path_exists+

Checks if the given path exists in the filesystem.
You can use this to check if something is active, like for example a VPN tunnel managed by NetworkManager.
There also is an option "format_down".
You can hide the output with format_down="".

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The title.
+path+:: The path to the file (must be set).
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%title: %status+) +
Placeholders can be: +%title+ (i.e. +instance+), +%status+ (i.e. +yes+ or +no+).
+format_down+:: The format string when the file does not exist at +path+ (defaults to format).

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[path_exists]
instance=VPN
# path exists when a VPN tunnel launched by nmcli/nm-applet is active
path=/proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/tun0

# Default values
# path is not set and must be set
#format=%title: %status
# format_down is not set and fallback to format if path does not exist
----

== +run_watch+

Expands the given path to a +pidfile+ and checks if the process ID found inside is valid (that is, if the process is running).
You can use this to check if a specific application, such as a VPN client or your DHCP client is running.
There also is an option "format_down".
You can hide the output with format_down="".

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: The title.
+pidfile+:: The path to the pid file (must be set).
+format+:: The format string (defaults to +%title: %status+) +
Placeholders can be: +%title+ (i.e. +instance+), +%status+ (i.e. +yes+ or +no+).
+format_down+:: The format string when the pid does not exist in +pidfile+ (defaults to format).

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[run_watch]
instance=DHCP
pidfile=/var/run/dhclient*.pid

# Default values
# pidfile is not set and must be set
#format=%title: %status
# format_down is not set and fallback to format if pid does not exist
----

== +time+

Outputs the current time.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +strftime+ format string (defaults to +%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S+) +
See +strftime(3)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[time]

# Default values
#format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S
----

== +tztime+

Outputs the current time in the given +timezone+.
If no +timezone+ is given, local time will be used.
The system’s timezone database is usually installed in /usr/share/zoneinfo.
Files below that path make for valid timezone strings, e.g. for /usr/share/zoneinfo/Europe/Berlin you can set timezone to Europe/Berlin in the +tztime+ module.
To override the locale settings of your environment, set the +locale+ option.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: The +strftime+ format string if format_time is unset or format string (defaults to +%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z+) +
If +format_time+ is unset, placeholders are the one from +strftime(3)+.
Otherwise, placeholder is +%time+ (i.e. the +strftime(3)+ format string).
+timezone+:: The timezone (defaults to "")
+locale+:: The locale (defaults to "")
+format_time+:: The +strftime+ format string (defaults to unset). +
See +strftime(3)+ for details on the format string.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[tztime]
instance=local
format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S

# Default values
#format=%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z
# timezone is not set
# locale is not set
# format_time is not set
----

== +volume+

Outputs the volume of the specified mixer on the specified device.
Only ALSA is supported.

.Options
[horizontal]
+format+:: Format string (defaults to +♪: %volume+).
Placeholder is +%volume+.
+format_muted+:: Format string when the mixer is muted (defaults to +♪: 0%%+).
+device+:: The device (defaults to +default+)
+mixer+:: The mixer (defaults to +Master+)
+mixer_idx+:: The mixer id (defaults to +0+)

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[volume]

# Default values
#format=♪: %volume
#format_muted=♪: 0%%
#device=default
#mixer=Master
#mixer_idx=0
----

== +wireless+

Get the link quality, frequency, and ESSID of the given wireless network interface.

.Options
[horizontal]
+instance+:: Network interface (defaults to +_first_+)
+format_up+:: Format string when the interface is up. +
Placeholders can be: +%bitrate+, +%essid+, +%frequency+, +%ip+, +%quality+.
+format_down+:: Format string when the interface is down.

.Example
[source,ini]
----
[wireless]
instance=wlan0
format_up=W: (%quality at %essid, %bitrate / %frequency) %ip
format_down=W: down
----
